Dark Wizard is a master in the art of potion making. Dark Wizard have a quest for you. Dark Wizard can prepare all the hardest potions with the most difficult ingredients. If you want to heal something, Dark Wizard can help you. Dark Wizard can prepare a healing potion. To get a healing potion you need to pay with a gold bar and prove your worth by bringing ingredients. A gold bar is guarded by Leprechaun. Ask Leprechaun to give a gold bar to you. Leprechaun lives in the sweet Lovey-dovey land. The ingredients for a healing potion are: dragon eyeballs and fairies magic dust. To get the dragon eyeballs find and kill the dragon. Dragon lives on the Desolation of Abomination. To get magic dust ask Little  Faeries. Little Faeries can be found in lovey-dovey land, the same place as Leprechaun. Dark Wizard have the biggest collection of magic scrolls with all the existing incantations. Dark Wizard can give you the scroll in exchange for the magic necklace that is guarded by the tiger spirit. Tiger lives in the Primaeval Bush, the heart of the wilderness. If you kill a mermaid, you will get her magic necklace and mermaid hair. Mermaid magic necklace stores her magic voice. Mermaid lives near the Specular Lakes. Mermaid loves to lie on the white sand beaches near the sea. To get magical necklace you have to kill the Mermaid. The last step to destroy Waters is to kill the crabs that live by the lakes. Lakes are in Specular Lakes. Waters are Coastline and Specular Lakes. To prove your worth find leaves, bring raven meat and snake skin. Leaves are guarded by Amazons. Kill Amazons to get the leaves. To get Raven Meat you need to kill Big Ravens that fly over the fields in Medieville and destroy crops. Medieville village is the heart of the Realm. Farmers hate Big Ravens. Dark Wizard love to eat Raven Meat. To bring snake skin, you need to find it and kill it. Venomous snake live in the Primaeval Bush, the greenest place in Medieville. Dark Wizard do not believe rumours of your power. To prove him wrong, defeat the dragon and bring eyeballs. If you prove your worth to him, you will get Snake Skin as a gift. Every potion Dark Wizard make can be bought with gold. To prove on which side you are, kill the unicorn and bring its horn. Unicorn lives in the sweet and full of candy lovey-dovey land. Unicorn seems sweet, but you never know. If you kill the unicorn, it will never use its power against you. Dragon, the most powerful creature, has a lot of enemies. Dragon crime is tormenting people in the Realm. To stop the Dragon from tormenting people and prove its reign is over, kill it and take its blood. Your ultimate adventure requires unicorn horn, mermaid hair, flame and gold bar. You can find gold at Leprechaun. Dark Wizard need a rare ingredient, which is the unicorn horn. You can get unicorn horn by killing the Unicorn. Unicorns live in the Lovey-dovey Land. Dark Wizard is not your friend, but can be an ally. Dark Wizard also make drinks. His signature drink is the fire bomb. To create fire bomb he need the fire flame. To get the fire flame you need to kill the Fire Elemental. Fire Elemental is in Desolation of Abomination. The last thing to get the deal is mermaid hair. Acquire the mermaid hair and the alliance will be sworn. You can find Mermaid near the sea. To take over the Primeaval Bush you have to kill Amazons and take their weapon. Amazons are keepers of the Primeaval Bush.