Druid is a magical being strongly connected to nature around him. Druid live in the Enchanted Forest. Druid can communicate with nature and all its children. Druid is a vessel for a powerful energy that keeps balance between good and evil. Druid can transform energy into magical object. One of the things a druid can make is a magical wand for casting spells. Druid needs a stick from a tree in Enchanted Forest, a mermaid blood and a vampires fang to make a wand. Druid cannot find the stick on his own, because he will not harm nature. You can get a mermaid blood by killing the Mermaid. Mermaids live in Coastline, near the sea. You can get a vampires fang by killing a vampire. You can find vampires in the Dreary Forest where all is scary and terrifying. If you get the wand, look for donkey next. Druid can help in a fight against Dark Wizards, but you need to pay them with gold. The gold is in possession of Leprechaun. Leprechaun live in a lovey-dovey land where everything is sweet and bright. If you bring the gold, you will have the druid providence. After getting providence and help, follow the spiders. You can find spiders in Dreary Forest. You can find spiders web in Dreary Forest or by killing the spiders. Druid can give you advice about staying in touch with the source of your supernatural power. To stay in touch with the source of your supernatural power you need to sacrifice most venomous snake. Only Dark Wizards know where venomous snake live. Find the Dark Wizard in the Dreary Forest.
Dark Wizards have stolen Mermaid necklace. Mermaid necklace is the source of her magical voice and without it you will not be able to talk to her. To get Mermaid necklace kill Dark Wizard. Druid need herbs and plants for his rituals. Druid can give you his sacred fire for som sage. To find a thief of a Greatest Gem of the Dwarven Empire, you need to find a Friendly Snowman. To find a Friendly Snowman, you need to find the Ice Ball first. Ice Ball is somewhere in the Frozen Empire.