Smith is a master of artisanal works. Smith make his best works with the use of his tools. His tools are special, because they are magical and they were stolen from the Dark Elf. The tools are Smith greatest treasure and its hard for him to part with them. Smith can give you his tools but only if you kill Farmer and bring its blood. Farmer sold poisonous potatoes to Smith. Smith want his revenge and Farmer’s blood. Smith can sell you a shovel. To get a shovel from a Smith you need to pay with tiger’s fur. Smith wants tiger fur to keep him warm in the cold weather. To get tiger fur, kill the Tiger. Tiger lives in the forest and he hides behind the trees to hunt preys. Smith can take you on as an apprentice. To learn something new from Smith you need to get your own hammer and more energy. The hammer is for killing Big Ravens. To get your own hammer, you need to visit a Farmer. Farmer lives in the heart of our Realm. The heart of our Realm is Medieville village. To get more energy kill wheat monsters and bring wheat. You and Smith are going to need wheat to eat and get strength. Smith can improve your weapon, but there is a price. Price for improving weapon is gold and dead raven. Smith need gold for some of his works. To gain greater recognition bring Smith some gold. You can get gold from the Leprechaun. Leprechaun lives in the lovey-dovey land with fairies and cotton candy trees. If you kill Big Raven you will get Raven Meat for Smith to eat. Big Raven is near the harvest in the Medieville. Medieville is in the center of the Realm. Smith can upgrade your sword if you are a Barbarian. To upgrade your sword you need a Magical Crystal. A Magical Crystal is guarded by the Fairies. Fairies live in the lovey-dovey land where everything is sweet. To find Fairies look for a rainbow and they should be close. Smith help with building houses for the settlers. To build houses Smith need stone. You can get stone by killing Earth Elemental. Earth Elemental lives in the Desolation of Abomination, an abandoned land on the north. Orc was your ally, but now you want his mace. To get the mace, defeat Orc in battle. To get the Purple Gem, give mace to Smith.
