"Black elves were elves from the the Domains who lived in the forest of Glenar. They fought the forces of Red Donald and were forced to flee. They managed to poison him, but he recovered."
"Typically, humans can define and categorize themselves by their place of origin (Spirans, Galbadians) or by their appearances (such as skin color), however there are Humans, Human races, or types of human, that possess unique classifications largely due to certain unique abilities."
"The stoic dwarves of Ironforge spent countless generations mining treasures from deep within the earth. Hidden within their impregnable stronghold of Ironforge Mountain, they rarely ventured beyond the wintry peaks of Dun Morogh. Recently however, the dwarves unearthed a series of ruins that held secrets to their ancient heritage. Driven to discover the truth about his people's fabled origins, the great King Magni Bronzebeard ordered that the dwarves shift their industry from mining to archaeology. As part of the Grand Alliance, the stoneward dwarven armies have been called away to battle the merciless Horde in faraway lands. In these perilous times, the defense of the mountain kingdom falls to brave dwarves like you. The spirits of the ancient kings watch over you, and the very mountains are your strength. The future of your people is in your hands."
"A familiar was a normal animal that gained new powers and became a magical beast when summoned to service by a sorcerer or wizard."
"Elf is the green characteristic creature type. They are ubiquitous throughout the multiverse, second in prominence throughout the many worlds only to humans. Because of this, Elf is the characteristic race for the color green. Elves typically live in forests, and are close to the land. In the game itself, many elves produce additional mana. Most elves look much like humans, only with pointed ears. Some types of elves have very distinctive physical features, however, such as blue or green skin or elongated limbs."
"Warriors train constantly and strive for perfection in armed combat. Though they come from all walks of life, they are united in their singular commitment to engage in glorious battle. Many warriors serve as mercenary soldiers, while others become adventurers and danger-seeking fortune hunters. A typical warrior is strong, tough, and exceptionally violent."
"Conjurers are wizards who specialize in conjuration, the magical art of summoning and teleportation. Conjurers are often headstrong and disdainful towards other schools of magic, seeing most as weak or inconsequential, with the exception of necromancy, which they hold to be repulsive. Conjurers can be difficult companions since many are so independent-minded that only an unusually strong-willed leader can earn their respect."
"The term Warlock is gender neutral. It is therefore now the preferred creature class for witches and hags."
"Death knights engage their foes up-close, supplementing swings of their weapons with dark magic that renders enemies vulnerable or damages them with unholy power. They drag foes into one-on-one conflicts, compelling them to focus their attacks away from weaker companions. To prevent their enemies from fleeing their grasp, death knights must remain mindful of the power they call forth from runes, and pace their attacks appropriately. To protect themselves and their fellows from death in battle, death knights gird themselves in heavy armor and parry attacks with their blades. They have a personal connection with their blades, and can forge runes into them in order to increase their power, these runeblades are empowered with dark magic and they can expend the power of their runes for vicious attacks."
"Evokers are naturally adept at combat, making them some of the most common wizard adventurers. Most evocation spells have an immediately obvious combat application, such as magic missile or fireball and make evokers valued combatants who often serve as a form of magical artillery on the battlefield."
"Wingless Lorwyn faeries are called groundlings."
"Warriors equip themselves carefully for combat and engage their enemies head-on, letting attacks glance off their heavy armor. They use diverse combat tactics and a wide variety of weapon types to protect their more vulnerable allies. Warriors must carefully master their rage - the power behind their strongest attacks - in order to maximize their effectiveness in combat."
"Because of their deliberate approach to matters most diviners are lawful, though their tendency towards inaction also makes many neutral. Diviners are not often adventurers, in part because of their loner nature, but when they are they are highly valued. Good diviners use their foresight to prevent harm from coming to others while evil ones can use it obtain control over others. Diviners of all stripes often cover their costs by serving as seers or fortunetellers."
"Elves on New Capenna have a pair of small-to-modest-sized horns growing from their foreheads (as opposed to the larger ones demons sport). They are primarily associated with the Cabaretti family."
"It is unknown if the Pardic dwarves survived Karona's coming and the ensuing calamity."
"While the Kaladeshi Elves do not organize themselves into tribes, certain factions have arisen. The Vahadar are the ones most regularly seen, as they do not shun the city and the company of other races, enjoying the prospect of taking part in the multi-faceted cycle. The Bishtahar faction instead dwells in rural regions, focusing on the interplay between aether and flora. The Tirahar have shunned technology completely, choosing to withdraw into the unclaimed wilderness of Kaladesh."
"A wizard's spells differed from those of other arcane spellcasters usually in terms of usage or scale. While a warlock's spells were primarily malevolent and a swordmage might use defensive spells that empowered themselves, a wizard used their power to control the nature of a battle, a landscape, or even the physical makeup of the universe itself. When in combat, a wizard favored spells that hindered many enemies at once, rather than attacking one, or that empowered themselves or allies."
"During the Dark, the descendants of the Argothian elves, the elves of the Shattered Isles, frequently hired themselves out as mercenaries to the humans of Terisiare, for it gave them an opportunity to vent their hatred of humankind in battle."
"A nomadic wanderer, the Barbarian combines brawn and ruggedness with a mastery of weapons, using devastating melee attacks along with war cries to boost his allies-or demoralize his enemies.""Glorified by many a song and fireside tale, the Barbarian is unrivaled in delivering unrelenting melee fury on anyone foolish enough to greet their axe-head." The Barbarian went through the same trials of weapons."
"Many elves did not sleep, instead finding their rest in a meditative state called "reverie", which was as restful as true sleep but left them aware of their surroundings, similar to an eladrin's ability to enter a trance."
"Many people from the northern hemisphere fled to Otaria after the Phyrexian Invasion of Dominaria. The elves among these mainly came to live in the Wirewood Forest. The elves lived in a state of symbiosis with the native beasts and insects of the forest. When the Mirari started spreading its mana waves over the continent, many of the elves mutated; most became spindly creatures with plant-like features, while some became hulking brutes with barklike skin. It's unknown if all Wirewood elves were mutated, or if the mutations bred true."
"Devkarin are the dark elves of Ravnica.  Formerly, they made up one of the two elite classes of the Golgari, the other being the teratogens. They are presided over by their "Matka", a high priestess, who until recently was Savra. The current Matka is Izoni, Thousand-Eyed. The Devkarin are adept spellcasters counting most of the Golgari's shamans among their numbers. Some of the Devkarin wear Moodmarks, which are minor enchantments that appear as spots or markings on their foreheads and around their eyes (usually resembling insect eyes)."
"Note that the spelling "fey" is alo used in the Dungeons & Dragons cross-over set Adventures in the Forgotten Realms (Fey Steed, Feywild Trickster)."
"Diviners are not necessarily cowards but exhaust all other options before proceeding into combat. While diviners can be useful due to their anticipation of others' attacks some are irritatingly hesitant, making them nigh useless at times. When forced into battle, diviners are in natural opposition to illusionists, whose tricks they can unravel with their own spells."
"Gaea's Skyfolk were an indirect product of the Phyrexian Invasion of Dominaria. As the whole world mobilized its reserves, even ancient adversaries cooperated together, lending their diverse skills into the service of the common good. The Skyfolk were partially of merfolk and partially of elvish origin, combining the unique features and skills of both races into one. A detailed description of their abilities is not available, but the major one was the ability to fly. The details of the creation of these creatures are, however, not known."
"The elves of Lorwyn are the dominant race of the plane. Unlike other elves, they are a brutal race of supremacists who hide their savagery behind a facade of beauty and sophistication. They are obsessed with physical attractiveness and believe that those who do not meet their standards of perfection (including all races other than themselves) deserve nothing but extermination. The elves divide themselves into numerous tribes and castes, the most powerful of which is the Gilt Leaf. Lorwyn elves are tall and thin. They have ram-like horns (males' horns being longer than females') and cloven, deer-like hooves in place of feet. Unlike any other known race of elves, those of Lorwyn have relatively short life spans of about 30 to 40 years."
"The fae of Lorwyn lead short, flitting lives in pursuit of gossip, diversions, and amusing intrigues. But faeries can also be carelessly cruel, capricious, and vindictive. The faeries travel in small groups of three to six called cliques. It is thought that faeries do not dream, which would explain why they spend so much time harvesting the dreams of others. Faeries can distill these stolen dreams into sparkling energy that they carry around with them."
"Dwarves were taught special skills by the Vala Aule and spent most of their time crafting, smithying and mining in their massive underground cities."
"Barbarians can be excellent warriors. While not as disciplined or as skilled as a normal fighter, the barbarian can willingly throw himself into a berserker rage, becoming a tougher and stronger opponent. Barbarians can't use plate mail armor, unlike the other three warrior classes. They use the fighter avatar for their appearance. In Throne of Bhaal, the Barbarian can draw from a high level ability pool which gives the barbarian some extra abilities."
"These dwarves lived in the Dwarven Stronghold in the Sarpadian Mountains. When the climate cooled and the goblins and orcs of Sarpadia migrated away from their ancestral lands, the empire of the dwarves was the first to fall before their onslaught. In the legend of The Lady of the Mountain, it is believed that a remaining few summoned the Lady and she teleported them away. It is believed by modern dwarves that they will return to save dwarvenkind from great peril."
"Elyssendril survived and was later part of the delegates sent to Halcyon on behalf of the Thran Alliance against Yawgmoth. During this time it was mentioned as she was of the Daelic elves, and that she represented a vast confederation of woodland nations on the Domains. Since Argoth is not part of the Domains, this is a bit of a mystery (though it might merely be that, like some real geographical terms, where the Domains precisely begins and ends is vague)."
"Long ago the majestic high elves created the splendid golden city of Quel'Thalas, built around a magical fount of energy known as the Sunwell. When the Lich King destroyed their capital in the Third War, the survivors turned to the Horde for help.Now known as the blood elves, these refugees are all that remains of their glorious civilization. They strive to rebuild Quel'Thalas while struggling against a crippling addiction to the very magical energies that once built their empire.For nearly seven thousand years, the high elves cultivated a shining magical kingdom hidden deep within the forests of northern Lordaeron. But five years ago, the undead Scourge invaded Quel'Thalas and drove the elves to the brink of extinction. Led by the evil death knight Arthas, the Scourge destroyed the mystical Sunwell, thereby severing the elves from the source of their arcane power. Though the scars of that conflict are evident, the remaining elves have banded together and retaken much of their homeland. Calling themselves "blood elves", these grim survivors are committed to regaining the vast powers they once commanded. Inspired by the leadership of their beloved prince, Kael'thas Sunstrider, the blood elves now seek new sources of arcane magic and the means of defending their land against the undying horrors of the Scourge. As one of the few surviving blood elves, you must master your thirst for magic and help shape the destiny of your people.The past few years have seen unprecedented changes within the eternal land of Quel'Thalas. The blood elves, following the will of their crazed leader, Kael'thas Sunstrider, channeled dangerous, chaotic magicks to transform their sacred Sunwell into a gateway of unspeakable evil. While Kael'thas and his demonic masters were eventually defeated, a different transformation occurred within the Sunwell itself as a dying naaru sacrificed its life essence to reignite the Sunwell as a font of holy energy. Now, the blood elf regent, Lor'themar Theron, sees a new hope on the horizon for his people. Over time, the Sunwell's Light could cure the blood elves of their cursed state, but many still cling to the arcane powers they procured and are hesitant to relinquish them. As one of the remaining blood elves, you must fight to protect Quel'Thalas and help redeem the soul of your ancient people.Main articles: Jokes#Blood elf male, Jokes#Blood elf femaleLong ago the exiled high elves landed on the shores of Lordaeron. They struck out to find a new home, and after many battles with the trolls, established the kingdom of Quel'Thalas. Using a vial of sacred water stolen from the first Well of Eternity, the high elves created a fount of mystical power at a convergence of ley energies in Quel'Thalas. They named this fountain the Sunwell. Its potent arcane magic fed and strengthened the high elves, and soon the wondrous city of Silvermoon was established."
"The Quirion elves of Corondor were great allies of the forces of good. Their culture produced many explorers, and their magic was attuned to every color of mana. The Quirion elves organized into numerous different clans, each with their own leaders, called exarchs. Many Quirion elves, followers of the human wizard Mangara, immigrated to the southern continent of Jamuraa."
"These clan structures promoted a tradition of inbreeding. This was so excessive that it was considered one of the reasons for the dwarves' low birth rate."
"During the Ice Age, faeries were among the few creatures to become even more powerful."
"Dwarves who left their homeland to become adventurers did so for a number of reasons. In part, a dwarf might be motivated by simple avarice, given the dwarven love of beautiful things. As often, however, a dwarf might be motivated by a drive to do what was right for others (particularly their clan) or a love of excitement because, as settled as dwarves were, they rarely tired of thrills. But even these wayward dwarves retained the spirit of their brethren, hoping that their accomplishments abroad could bring honor to themselves, their clan, or both. Given that successful dwarven adventurers were likely to recover rare items or defeat enemies of the dwarven people during such challenges, this was a hope not entirely without merit."
"Bold and adventurous, the Dwarves of Ironforge are a hardy people who relish battle and exploration. Recently, records surfaced of a god-like race said to have given the Dwarves life, fueling their desire for exploration and archaeology as they seek to unearth the mysteries of their progenitors."
"Death knights, often abbreviated to DK, are melee fighters that wield dark magic and runeforged weapons."
"The Silhana are the Ravnican elves that are part of the Selesnya Conclave. The Silhana are master archers who stalk the rooftops of the city-plane. Some Silhana, the Elves of Deep Shadow, were cast out of the Conclave long ago and joined the Golgari."
"Due to human prejudice, Kael'thas was forced to accept the assistance of Lady Vashj and her reptilian naga. When the humans discovered that the blood elves had been working with the naga, Kael'thas and the others were imprisoned and condemned to death. Lady Vashj soon arrived to set them free, leading them through a portal and into the broken wastes of Outland. There, the elves met the one being capable of putting an end to their hunger: the renegade night elf/demon, Illidan."
"Death knight talents can bolster their defensive abilities by focusing on their ability to heal themselves, increase their damage and spell attacks, or summon forth minions and diseases by making use of their runes."
"The most distinctive aspect of barbarians was their ability to "rage," wherein they let loose powerful emotional bursts fueled by their primal power or inner fury.  When they raged, barbarians gained a number of powerful benefits, including an increase in physical prowess, and greater insensitivity to many forms of physical damage. This rage usually lasted about a minute, but with experience and training, most barbarians could extend it indefinitely."
"Many have sought to harness the corruptive magic of the Void. Most who tried have fallen into madness. Determined to use this power for the good of Azeroth, Alleria Windrunner is the first mortal to succeed at defying the shadow's whispers. Coming to the aid of a group of her kin who nearly gave in to the darkness, Alleria has vowed to train these Void Elves to control the shadows within them and pledge their newfound powers to the Alliance."
"Seeking to harness the corruptive magic of the Void, these outcast elves endured an unexpected transformation. They are determined to master their newfound powers and resist the whispers eager to lure them into madness."
"During his exile, Yawgmoth turned the Creeping Mold of Argoth into a virulent plague that ate away the elves there. He also kidnapped their priestess, Elyssendril Lademmdrith, and her healers, ordering the elves to pay ransom for their leader and their cure. When the elves paid, he delivered to them only sweetened water and dead healers."
"Most Eldraine elves are lithe and stand just shorter than a human, with a range of skin tones and tall, pointed ears. They bear keen, quick expressions, and have an innate connection to the natural world."
"In ages past the dwarves cared only for riches taken from the earth's depths. Then records surfaced of a god-like race said to have given the dwarves life... and an enchanted birthright. Driven to learn more, the dwarves devoted themselves to the pursuit of lost artifacts and ancient knowledge. Today dwarven archaeologists are scattered throughout the globe."
"Dwarves were a proud and stern race and were made to be sturdy to resist the dangers of their time. They were physically very strong, had great endurance, especially in the ability to resist heat and cold, and they made light of heavy burdens. Dwarves lived longer than Men,        often up to two-hundred-and-fifty years. Dwarves had the ability to learn new artisanal skills quickly, especially those dealing with metal or stone."
"Elves can be found in virtually every plane throughout the multiverse. To date, Amonkhet, Kamigawa, Ixalan, Ikoria, Mercadia, Rabiah, Tarkir, Theros, and Ulgrotha are the only natural planes to have no known races of elves, and only small portions of some of these have been seen. According to the creative team, Elves were once present on Innistrad, but were driven to extinction."
""Bein' a mage means knowin' power can flow in more than one direction.""
"Dwarves were a short, stocky race, a little taller than hobbits but much broader and heavier. Most Dwarves had thick, luxuriant beards in which they took great pride, and often forked or braided them and tucked them into their belts."
"Abjurers in battle are not as much a danger to those who forego magic for martial combat but those who use arcane or even divine spells will find abjurers deadly opponents. As aforementioned abjurers are often well-prepared for combating spellcasters of all stripes and are a valuable addition to any team intent on fighting wielders of supernatural abilities."
"Elves on Fiora appear to be centered into their own nation, including the port-city of Trest, away from the High City. The current ambassador to the High Court of Paliano is Leovold of Trest, who has taken an interest in installing another elf, Selvala, as the head of Paliano."
"From the shattered lands of the South this proud race of people hails. A tribal and nomadic culture, the southern Barbarians prayed to no deity and swore allegiance to no leader. This was the reason that when the kingdoms of the East invaded the Barbarian lands, little resistance was found. The scattered villages fought valiantly, each man, woman and child battling to the death against the hordes of magic users from the distant lands, but to no avail. The lands of the Barbarians, beautiful forests and the majestic jungles, were conquered by the East, and the tribes scattered to the four winds. Still proud, the tribes still gather occasionally, but they are small in number. They despised all magic, for it was this mystical force that was used against them in the wars they had fought. Their battles in the war taught them much about magic however. Because of the war against the Eastern mages, all Barbarians have a certain immunity to magic bound within them as a result of so much exposure to the powerful forces. Training in brute strength and physical force was the norm for Barbarians, with great endurance and vitality being praised. They came to be large people, with flaring tempers which makes the blood of a Barbarian truly boil when he is outraged. Chief weapon to the Barbarians was the Axe, for it was this weapon that proved most useful to them in the forests and jungles where they resided. Their great strength allows them to wield other weapons in a single hand, but the axe is still the weapon of choice for most Barbarians."
"Most elves live far longer than humans, but it's unclear exactly how much. Eladamri was over 150 years old and considered to be in his prime. Ravnican elves not only live far longer than humans but also mature faster; it is unknown if this is common to all elves or just those of Ravnica."
"The Llanowar are long-lived even for elves. Those who avoid death can easily live to be a thousand years old. These elves are revered "millenaries" and their personal memories often outstrip the accuracy and depth of human accounts."
"Warriors are combatants who fight alone or in loose hordes. Unlike soldiers, whose strength is in their numbers, a single warrior is often content to take on the world all by him- or herself. Warriors favor brute strength over cunning, sheer will over tactics. Many warriors have trample."
"Duergars, also known as gray dwarves, are a subterranean subrace of dwarves.They carve out an existence in the Underdark. Their kinship to surface dwarves can be compared to that of the Drow to surface Elf folk."
"Wizards cast their spells by using their acquired magical knowledge and experience. In particular, they learn most new spells by seeking out magical writings and copying them into their spellbooks, a method that allows them, unlike bards or sorcerers, to master any number of permissible spells once they find them, assembling a broad and versatile arsenal of power. Many wizards see themselves not only as spell casters but as philosophers, inventors, and scientists, studying a system of natural laws that are for the most part unknown and undiscovered."
"Before the Conflux, faeries were most common on Esper, where they were Etherium-infused like all other lifeforms. The Esperite faeries had metallic wings and hand-like feet that made them valuable as mechanists."
"Dwarves were a long-lived race, though not so much as elves, and reached physical maturity somewhat later than humans. A dwarf was traditionally considered an adult once he or she reached age fifty. Dwarves aged much like humans but over a longer period of time, remaining vigorous well past 150 years. Most dwarves lived to see their bicentennial  and a few lived to be over 400. A dwarf was considered to be young until they reached the age of 50."
"Combining a mastery of weapons and prowess in battle, Warriors storm fearlessly into the front lines of any fight."
"Yavimayan elves have very spindly, elongated limbs. One notable difference between the elves of Yavimaya and those of other parts of Dominaria is the connection between the elves and Yavimaya itself. While all elves have strong ties to the land, the elves of Yavimaya are actually part of a hive culture, sharing the thoughts of Yavimaya simultaneously with their own. During the third phase of the Phyrexian Invasion, part of Yavimaya was displaced to Urborg. It is currently unknown if any elves from the Yavimaya "colony" are still living. Lord Windgrace is now the leader of the displaced portion of Yavimaya. In addition to the spindly, telepathic elves of Yavimaya, the forest also seemed to be home to some "normal" elves as well, including some barbaric elves with a warlike culture."
"Elves, like Men, are Children of Eru Iluvatar and thus are very similar to Men. Unlike Men, however, they are immortal, in that their bodies do not age once they have reached maturity, so that they do not seem to become elderly or die of old age. They can be killed by physical injury however, or they may come to death from wasting away if after long eons of life they lose the will to live. Some Elves in the First Age living near Angband died from a wasting disease, which was presumably issuing from Thangorodrim, Morgoth's fortress. The Elves came into existence before Men, and when Elves die they pass to the Halls of Mandos in Valinor."
"In addition to utilizing their rage in a way far greater than other barbarians, berserkers were also much more frightening to behold. Sufficiently powerful berserkers could actually cause their enemies to run in terror from them through their presence alone. Experienced berserkers also maintained exceptionally good battle reflexes, allowing them to strike a retaliatory blow to anyone who injured them in a fight."
"The court of Locthwain is ruled by Queen Ayara, an ancient elf from the days of the former Elven Kingdom on Eldraine. There are more elves in the court, which is noble and graceful. They wear elaborate headdresses and elegant attire."
"Most dwarves preferred living in underground cities near the surface and above the Underdark, built around mines that provided much of their livelihood. Carved into stone, these cities might take centuries to complete but were practically ageless once finished. Though dwarves were typically a martial race by nature, these cities had civilian populations that made up about one fourth of the total population and which were made up primarily of the young, the elderly, or a few regular adults. Females typically composed as large a portion of the military as male dwarves did."
"Dwarven women were alike in manner, voice and appearance to their menfolk. They were few in number, less than a third of all dwarf-kind, and they were seldom seen outside their own halls, often not venturing far due to their duties as caretakers and crafters in Dwarven society. They typically only travelled when in great need, and they usually dressed similarly to Dwarf men. This often led other folk to believe there were no women among the Dwarves, that Dwarves grew from stone when created. Few female Dwarven warriors were known, but some tales say that female Dwarves were as fierce as their male counterparts, especially in protecting their families and offspring. Dwarves were usually monogamous, and fewer than one-third of Dwarven men took a wife, the rest busying themselves with their crafts."
"The elves of Kaladesh are deeply in tune with the flow of aether and the subtle ways it influences and shapes the natural world. Their inventions are inspired by nature and in turn they inspire others, offering a vision of progress that is elegant, efficient, and harmonious with the Great Conduit's aether patterns. While most of them are not aligned with the Consulate, several live in Ghirapur and support its infrastructure, seeking to preserve the status quo and allow the aether cycle to turn. Only in rare cases do they take part in politics or resistance movements. In exchange, the Consulate grants them large judicial autonomy. Elves are tried under the Sunlit Path, an ancient code of conduct that has a variety of laws and punishments that seem minor to outsiders, but are viewed as harsh by the elves themselves."
"Eldraine witches are humans who chose to live in the wilds, so far removed from humanity that they might as well be fair folk. They are usually cruel but can sometimes be seen as a ruthless force for justice."
"The elves of Mirrodin were not native to that plane but were instead drawn therefrom some other world by Mirrodin's mad guardian, Memnarch. The Viridian elves resided in the vast copper forest known as the Tangle. They were staunch enemies of the myr and other artifact creatures. The elves held the Radix as a holy place and looked to the trolls of Tel-Jilad for spiritual guidance. They were in conflict with the vedalken of Lumengrid and their drones. Viridian elves were marked by their bright green or pale white skin, while the mycosynth growing within the plane caused them to grow intricate plates and spikes of copper across their bodies."
"The paladin (often shortened to "pala" or "pally" by players) is a holy knight, a hybrid class with the ability to play a variety of different roles = healing (holy), tanking (protection), and DPS (retribution). The Paladins stand directly in front of their enemies, relying on heavy armor and healing in order to survive incoming attacks. Whether with massive shields or crushing two-handed weapons, Paladins are able to keep claws and swords from their weaker fellows - or they use healing magic to ensure that they remain on their feet."
"Fire sprites are faeries who can cast fire spells and are perpetually surrounded by a flaming aura. They were summoned by the Kieryn elves while fighting against the Calthyn elves in the White Woods of Corondor."
"Warriors are usually leading the charge into battle, tearing across the battlefield and using furious shouts and terrifying banners to rally their allies and intimidate their enemies. Whether striking down opponents with mighty two-handed weapons, tearing into packs of enemies in a whirlwind of steel, or standing firm in the face of death itself, warriors excel at battle with a range of powerful attacks and battlefield maneuvers, as masters of both skillful strikes and devastating blows."
"The Fyndhorn elves were the survivors of the Argothian elves. They were slightly more open than their ancestors, engaging in diplomacy with the humans of Kjeldor via the Juniper Order. When the Ice Age ended and the sea level rose, Fyndhorn was swallowed by the sea. Kaysa and Jaeuhl Carthalion led the refugees to Yavimaya."
"Dwarves are a short but stocky race that inhabits Toril. What a regular dwarf lacks in in height (measuring between        and     feet), he makes up for in bulk, weighing as much as a mature human. Dwarven males are a bit taller and heavier than their female counterparts."
"Elves were immune to illness and not subject to age after reaching their prime. They could be killed only in violence or by extreme despair."
"Elves are generally considered one of the most beautiful races. They are slightly shorter and more delicate than humans and are not as hardy. Elves are a rare sight on the sword coast perhaps because they prefer the wild to human cities. While they are well known as a cheerful and frolicsome race, many elves, especially drow, are as surly as dwarves or as prideful as humans."
"Those wizards who specialize in the anticipation of events through time and space, either in the future or a far away location, are known as diviners. Diviners are notable for possessing an unusually high wisdom for wizards, with strong and cautious judgment, preferring to use violence only as a last resort. Many diviners are also strong judges of character, with an insightful nature in all matters."
"The Erstwhile is an ancient faction of elvish aristocrats that were entombed in the modern Undercity. The Golgari have unearthed their coffins and reanimated them as part of the Swarm. They still wear their stately attire, despite its moldering condition, and they lend an air of high culture to the undercity court of the Golgari."
"Warrior talents can improve their already considerable defenses with a shield, increase their deadliness with two-handed weapons, or bolster their savagery while dual-wielding."
"Paladins are not only zealots, but also guardians of the righteous, and they bestow blessings on those the Light would shine upon. The Light radiates from paladins, and worthy allies who stand near them are emboldened by its power."
"Mul Daya was a secretive nation located in the Guum Wilds of Bala Ged. They could easily be recognized by their facepaint and tattoos. While their living leader was Hazzan, he himself followed the edicts of a centuries-old elvish spirit named Obuun. Through their leadership, the Mul Dayans became adept spies and assassins with the elite calling themselves "vine ghosts." Mul Dayan Soulspeakers openly practiced a blend of mysticism and necromancy to better commune with their ancestors. Special brakeguards were the only tribe members who could safely navigate the wilds."
"Elves commonly possessed strong but swiftly passing passions, being moved easily to laughter, anger, or misery and as quickly calmed. They were known for their impulsive behavior and, as a result, many races saw them as flighty or impetuous. However, elves were not as flaky as others might interpret them to be, and they were typically responsible despite their almost whimsical nature. Partially due to their long lifespan (though not entirely, since many long-lived races acted differently), elves had difficulty taking some matters as seriously as other races, but when threats they recognize did arise, elves were strong friends and allies to those they were loyal to."
"The Elves are a peaceful race that reside in Elfheim. Their leader is the Prince of Elfheim, and they are related to the Dark Elves, the leader of whom has cast the Prince of Elfheim into a deep sleep. The Elf King and his descendants were trusted with the Mystic Key by the royal family of Cornelia, to keep until the fabled Warriors of Light arrived in Elfheim to claim it. The Elves have four magic shops in their town and are of relatively small stature, which seems to imply they favor magic over physical might."
"Many dwarves have an affinity for the caverns in which they live, possessing a knack for recognizing unusual patterns in stonework that could almost seem supernatural at times. They are also renowned for their metalworking and crafting abilities."
"Wizards were also skilled in the use of rituals, powerful spells that require a significant amount of time and energy to cast, thereby making them impractical in battle but immensely useful in non-combat applications. As with their daily spells (spells which a wizard can only master once per day), wizards kept these rituals written in a spellbook, where each ritual took up at least a page, with complexity and page length directly proportional to the power inherent in a ritual."
"A Warlock gains their spellcasting power by making a deal with a demon or another dark being."
"The Garan elves lived on the highlands at the edges of the Tamingazin Valley. They could easily be mistaken for humans, as they were very similar in appearance - lacking even pointed ears. It was said that this ancient race possibly had a common ancestor with humankind. The main characteristic setting the Garan elves apart from humans was their great natural beauty and their wide eyes whose irises changed color according to their mood. Garan elves were also very deadly warriors, fighting solely with their own bodies and relying on their own speed, agility, and martial arts. Weapons were forbidden in their culture, and an elf who used them would be executed. They could be very brutal toward their own children, attacking them occasionally with fatal blows to teach them self-defense, killing those who were unable to defend themselves, ensuring that only the strongest children survive. They believe that in the afterlife they will find themselves in a place they call Tarak Ah. The history of the Garan elves before their arrival in the Valley is unknown. Some tales say that the Garan elves once used weapons, very long and flexible swords which could be used almost like lashes. None could stand against them, but one day conflict arose between them, and civil war almost engulfed their race. The survivors swore never to use a weapon again and to kill those who dared. The Garan has a strict hierarchy, the full name of every member is comprised of his or her first name followed by the rank."
"Elves had a number of abilities that set them apart from other humanoid races. Like their kin the eladrin, elves were agile, dexterous creatures. However, elves could move slightly faster than their eladrin kin and could move swiftly through even the roughest terrain. Elves were also more preternaturally aware of their surroundings than eladrin, as well as possessing better common sense. This aided elves in many ways, allowing elves a high degree of perceptiveness that they could lend partially to allies. Additionally, elves were extremely accurate in their attacks, having a degree of precision that would be unusual for other humanoids."
"These dwarves lived in the Pardic Mountains on Otaria alongside several human barbarian tribes. The Pardic dwarves were hardy miners and doughty warriors inclined toward passionate, explosive personalities.     They exulted in battle, favoring swarm tactics supplemented by fire magic and destruction of enemy resources. Some of these dwarves were enslaved by the Cabal."
"Now, watch them attack me. Pitiful! Do they think to take vengeance for their fallen? Do they come to challenge ME? I, who have won a hundred wars? I, who stood alone against thousands and still shouted for my enemies to come? No, these saurok will crumple before me like paper before the flame!"
"Avariel are said to have the most beautiful voices of all the elves. This makes them highly sought after by bards."
"Dwarves were unusually tough for humanoids, in more ways than one. Dwarven stomachs, for instance, were resistant to virtually all poisons and it took less effort for a dwarf to get back on their feet than other races. Dwarves also had dense bodies and were difficult to push around as a result, as well as having the capacity to bear loads that other races might find hindering with little ill effect. Dwarves also had a sense about them that few races did, with a preternatural awareness of their surroundings useful for a subterranean race as well as good judgment all-around in general."
"Many barbarians drew upon the primal energies of the natural world and its guardian spirits, often in the form of ancestral totems, for empowerment, gaining powerful abilities called evocations.  The feral might gained by barbarians could manifest in many other ways and some used it to empower themselves to the point of nigh invulnerability, finding it easier to take blows and plow onward rather than dodge them. Others gained the ability to literally shape their fate, affecting the quality of luck dealt them through force of will."
"Through the leadership of Speaker Sutina, the Tajuru nation had become the largest and most prominent elf faction on Zendikar. Basing society within the massive treetops of Murasa, the Tajuru were open to other races and highly skilled innovators. Their capital was the Tumbled Palace based on the cliffs of Sunder Bay. Before the creature died in the tentacles of Kozilek, Sutina often had been seen overlooking the water just before Lorthos, the Tidemaker appeared. Any connection between the two remains unknown. A later leader of the Tajuru was Nisede."
"Flittersprites collect unusually valuable things: coins of fallen empires, baby teeth, and memories of treasured names."
"They had a knack for starting a fire almost anywhere out of almost anything. Although they knew how, Dwarves did not farm or herd often, as they preferred to spend their time underground mining and crafting. They rather traded crafted items with Men and Elves in exchange for food."
"These dwarves lived in the Sardian Mountains on Terisiare during the Brothers' War. They provided the primal clay that Urza used to create his clay statues and the Colossus of Sardia. After years of service, Urza found out that the dwarves were trading with Mishra too; they eventually rose against Argive, and for this, they were slaughtered."
"Enchanters can be good or evil and have no overall strong alignment tendencies. Overall, enchanters are chaotic over evil, though only by a slim margin. Good enchanters are defined by their restraint when it comes to using enchantments to violate another's being's free will, while evil enchanters show little such restraint.    Enchanters of all kinds enjoy company and typically are found in large cities rather than small communities where their talents are put to little use."
"The Argothian elves lived on the forest island of Argoth from as early as the time of the Thran up until the Sylex Blast."
"A wizard still in his apprentice stage.Wizards may specialize in one or more of eight schools of magic, choosing their specialty early on in their training. This specialization is sometimes required in order to join the ranks of some of the world's most prestigious wizards, such as the Red Wizards of Thay, who require all initiates to be specialized in one of the schools of magic."
"The leaves were long, the grass was green,The hemlock-umbels tall and fair,And in the glade a light was seenOf stars in shadow shimmering.Tinuviel was dancing thereTo music of a pipe unseen,And light of stars was in her hair,And in her raiment glimmering.There Beren came from mountains cold,And lost he wandered under leaves,And where the Elven-river rolled.He walked along and sorrowing.He peered between the hemlock-leavesAnd saw in wonder flowers of goldUpon her mantle and her sleeves,And her hair like shadow following.Enchantment healed his weary feetThat over hills were doomed to roam;And forth he hastened, strong and fleet, And grasped at moonbeams glistening.Through woven woods in ElvenhomeShe lightly fled on dancing feet,And left him lonely still to roamIn the silent forest listening.He heard there oft the flying soundOf feet as light as linden-leaves,Or music welling underground,In hidden hollows quavering.Now withered lay the hemlock-sheaves,And one by one with sighing soundWhispering fell the beechen leavesIn the wintry woodland wavering.He sought her ever, wandering farWhere leaves of years were thickly strewn,By light of moon and ray of starIn frosty heavens shivering.Her mantle glinted in the moon,As on a hill-top high and farShe danced, and at her feet was strewnA mist of silver quivering.When winter passed, she came again,And her song released the sudden spring,Like rising lark, and falling rain,And melting water bubbling.He saw the elven-flowers springAbout her feet, and healed againHe longed by her to dance and singUpon the grass untroubling.Again she fled, but swift he came.Tinuviel! Tinuviel!He called her by her elvish name;And there she halted listening.One moment stood she, and a spellHis voice laid on her: Beren came,And doom fell on TinuvielThat in his arms lay glistening.As Beren looked into her eyesWithin the shadows of her hair,The trembling starlight of the skiesHe saw there mirrored shimmering.Tinuviel the elven-fair,Immortal maiden elven-wise,About him cast her shadowy hairAnd arms like silver glimmering.Long was the way that fate them bore,O'er stony mountains co
"The result of mating between elves and humans (or, more rarely, elves and other races), half-elves have shorter lifespans and less delicate features."
"Dwarves are usually portrayed as skilled engineers, and almost always have a special password, usually    "Lali-ho!" or something similar. Depending on the game, they may have a friendly or hostile relationship with the Elves, or none at all."
"For the Alliance, the druid class was exclusive to the night elves until the addition of the Worgen in Cataclysm."
"Dawnhart witches are mostly green and white-aligned warlocks that follow primordial, pagan traditions. After Avacyn's death they have taken to organising large festivities, hoping to beat back the darkness and lengthen the days. Members of the coven seem to have made a pact with a god called Ghrin-Danu."
""All that I am: anger, cruelty, vengeance - I bestow upon you, my chosen knight. I have granted you immortality so that you may herald in a new, dark age for the Scourge.""
"Barbarians had a reputation, perhaps not completely deserved, as reckless ruffians and savage nuisances who needless disrupted society by acts of mayhem. However, barbarians, while undoubtedly feral and unpredictable by the nature of their rages, were not necessarily uncultured brutes. Time and time again, barbarians proved their cunning and resourcefulness as well as their sheer physical power and endurance. Sometimes, in spite of their aversion to an organized order, barbarians even demonstrated honor."
"Wizards were a form of a spellcaster who learned the art of arcane magic through research and learning.  What wizards lacked in combat prowess and armor they made up with a broad range of magical spells and abilities learned through years of practice and training. Through their spellcasting ability, powerful wizards could control the battlefield, using spells that affected wide areas, often hindering enemies, while also learning to use powerful rituals of arcane power."
"The earliest, and most common, faerie in Magic are winged humanoid creatures of diminutive size (sometimes a foot in height or smaller) that are renowned for being great lovers of mischief. These faeries exist through the multiverse, but the most notable faeries are those of Alara (specifically in Esper), Lorwyn, Ulgrotha, and the Dominarian island of Tolaria. These are also sometimes known as fae, pixies or sprites."
"Men bear the Gift of Men, which is mortality, and therefore they age and die when their time comes, and are susceptible to illness and disease. Elves are immortal, in the sense that they are not susceptible to aging and disease. Even the Valar did not know what ultimate fate awaited the souls of Men, as this was known only to Eru."
"Many soldiers have first strike, vigilance or other combat-oriented abilities. Most soldiers are white, though a large minority are blue or red, and a few green and black soldiers have been printed as well."
"This is the common view of a wizard casting: voicing several strange words, utilizing some arcane component (such as tossing pixie dust into the air), and perhaps making some sort of quirky hand movement. In actuality every part of the sequence must be exact or else the wizard may miscast, misfire, cast an entirely different spell, or cast nothing at all."
"All dwarfs have beards and wear up to twelve layers of clothing. Gender is more or less optional."
"Samurai is a creature class. Samurai, also known as Bushi, are warriors who have sworn their service and their lives to a single authority figure, usually a feudal lord."
"Elvish druids, respected for their wisdom, are the leaders of elf bands. When situations arise that concern the elves as a group, a council of all the druids convene to solve the problem. No single druid holds authority over the council, but by longstanding tradition, the five eldest druids hold seats of honor-representing the five magical sites of their ancient realm."
"They start in Shadowglen, an area located inside the great tree Teldrassil. The elven capital was Darnassus, where their High Priestess Tyrande Whisperwind and her husband Malfurion Stormrage led their people. After the great boughs of their home were burned down by the Horde, however, night elves canonically have no main base of operations. The night elves has long rode the mighty nightsaber, and their racial language is Darnassian. The Common tongue is a secondary language they share with their allies."
"Dwarves could see in the dark, out to about 60 feet (18 meters). Many dwarves had an affinity for the caverns in which they lived, possessing a knack for recognizing unusual patterns in stonework that could seem almost supernatural at times."
"The Skyshroud elves were one of many species and races transported by Phyrexians to Rath upon the artificial plane's creation.    Much like everything else on Rath, their origins are lost to time. During the Rathi Overlay, the Skyshroud forest planeshifted to Keld, where the elves took up the worship of Freyalise. It is as yet unknown what happened to the elves after their goddess's death and Skyshroud's destruction in the Time Spiral crisis. Many of the elves of Skyshroud had pale gray or bluish skin with faint splotches on the sides of the face. As Dominaria's mana was sapped by time rifts, most Skyshroud elves became sickly and emaciated due to malnutrition."
"Dwarves were careful and deliberate, with a more serious disposition than other races, who they sometimes viewed as flighty or reckless. A dwarf did all things with care and a stubborn resolve, with brash or cowardly behavior unusual for them. However, dwarves did succumb easily to wrath or greed, which were their most common vices."
"Most samurai are noble and serve their duty unflinchingly. Samurai are often equipped with a longsword called a katana and a shortsword called a wakizashi; in many lands where samurai are found, they are the only citizens allowed to carry more than one weapon. The bushido ability, representing their ability in combat, is exclusive to samurai. Most samurai are aligned with white."
"When, millennia later, Harbin stumbled upon Argoth, he was helped by an Argothian elf. This proved the doom of the island, however, for Harbin told his father Urza of the island. Urza soon traveled to it to use it for resources in his war against his brother Mishra; the Brothers fought over Argoth in the last campaign of their war. The elves and other forest dwellers fought valiantly, but ultimately they were all destroyed when Urza activated the Golgothian Sylex. The following Sylex Blast completely decimated the island, leaving only a small part behind that would later become Fyndhorn."
"A master of the javelin and bow, the Amazon reacts to combat situations with superhuman agility. She relies on magic prowess to enhance her significant martial abilities."The Amazon is a powerful woman warrior of the Askari, who belongs to nomadic bands who roam the plains near the South Sea. The wandering of these groups often brings them into conflict with other peoples, so the Amazon is accustomed to fighting to defend."
"The Calthyn elves are a clan from the White Woods of Corondor, part of the Quirion Sovereign. They lived close to the River Estolade and were enemies of the Kieryn elves, who they fought in order to decide which tribe had the right to speak with the Great Spirit. One of their leaders was Exarch Finovar."
"Elves come of age at around fifty years old, and generally marry around this age. Elves who marry late or never are said to have strange fates. Elves can tell in the eyes and voice of another Elf whether they are married, and it is against an Elf's nature to take another by force; one so forced would reject bodily life and die. Because of the union of souls that occurs when Elves marry, and because of the eternal nature of Elven souls, they do not divorce or have multiple marriages. Elves have a taboo against incest, but marriage among second cousins is seen as acceptable. Whether this results in degradation from strong bloodlines is unknown."
"Reinvigorated, the blood elves fight to protect Quel'Thalas, conquer their magical addiction with the Sunwell's sustainment, and help redeem the soul of their ancient people."
"Barbarians came in a number of different varieties, with a number of diverse capabilities. Two of the main divergent branches of barbarians were the path of the berserker and the path of the totem warrior."
"In Lorwyn's counterpart, Shadowmoor, the elves are the only race that embraces a quest of preserving what they consider beauty. Physically they remain mostly the same except their horns which are covered with thorns."
"The Savaen elves live in Savaea, a forest on an island to the southeast of Aerona. Savaen culture placed great importance on the purity of the land. They had a brief era of prominence during the Dark."
"There was once a third tribe of elves on Ravnica, one that became largely extinct during the pre-Guildpact wars; the survivors joined the Simic Combine. Little is known about them, but both the Devkarin and the Silhana believe they were very cruel and unpleasant. Simic elves seem to have been mostly bald. As time went by, almost all of the Simic elves subjected themselves to strange biological experiments, adding biomechanical implants or splicing their genes with those of other creatures, such as snakes."
"Throne of Eldraine introduced larger sized Faeries like Rankle, Master of Pranks, which inhabit the Wilds of Eldraine alongside the smaller winged type. Here, fae is the catch-all term for all these creatures."
"For as long as war has raged, heroes from every race have aimed to master the art of battle. Warriors combine strength, leadership, and a vast knowledge of arms and armor to wreak havoc in glorious combat. Some protect from the front lines with shields, locking down enemies while allies support the warrior from behind with spell and bow. Others forgo the shield and unleash their rage at the closest threat with a variety of deadly weapons. The warrior's battle cries embolden friends and leave foes cowering in fear. With legendary precision, warriors target the smallest gaps in armor and slice at hamstrings in a blur of steel."
"Gold dwarves, are a subterranean subrace of dwarves, and are known for their confidence and keen intuition. The culture of their Deep Kingdom values family, ritual, and fine craftmanship."
"The Druids are a nomadic race who hail from the untamed lands of Scosglen. Rugged and beautiful, the home of the Druids is teeming with Werewolves and other abominations lurking within the encroaching wilderness. To survive and rule over these wilds, the Druids must forfeit their humanity to awaken the beast within." The Druids are a race of nomadic warrior-poet-kings. Kin to the Barbarians, they make their home in Scosglen. The Druids shun the use of traditional magic."
"Soldier is a creature class. Soldiers are trained combatants who are part of a formal army. They are tough and disciplined, adept at fighting in concert, and overwhelming the enemy. The subtype was first featured on Icatian cards of Fallen Empires, but Benalish Hero from Alpha and several other early cards have retroactively become Soldiers, as well."
"Dwarves are very similar to Humans but shorter. Many males wear long beards and live in mines, although some of them are known to live outside the mountains and even on islands."
"The Kazandu Splinter is a small separate faction of elves located in Kazandu region of Murasa. Formerly Tajuru, they broke off from the nation refusing to see Speaker Sutina as their leader. Their life on the dangerous cliffsides and in the jaddi-trees has fundamentally changed their outlook from their former brethren."
"The planeswalker Oko is called a fey. This may just be an alternate spelling of "fae," which would mean that Oko would be a faerie. However, Oko doesn't appear to have wings."
"A member of an ancient Vizjerei order founded to hunt down mages gone rogue, the Assassin is a martial arts expert who uses deadly traps and shadow disciplines to vanquish evil." The Assasin's main weapon is a Claw or other such weapon used in the fist such as Katar or Hatchet Hands. Assassins are highly adept at lock picking, allowing them to open locked chests without the need for keys use"
"Kael'thas would eventually return to Quel'Thalas, having forsaken his people for the Burning Legion. Taking the Naaru M'uru with him to the Isle of Quel'Danas, he sought to bring the demon Kil'jaeden into Azeroth. He was foiled by the forces of the Shattered Sun Offensive and the Sunwell was restored by the prophet Velen, using the spark of the dying M'uru to rekindle it as a source of Light."
"Wizards who specialize in abjuration magic, spells that deflect or interact with other spells, are known as abjurers. These wizards are usually deliberate and prudent, seeing many other wizard specialists as reckless or wasteful. Abjurers like to be prepared, be it in research or adventuring, and often devote their free time to working out strategies for confronting other arcane spellcasters."
"... people didn't seem to be able to remember what it was like with the elves around. Life was certainly more interesting then, but usually because it was shorter. And it was more colorful, if you liked the color of blood."
"When the Lich King's control of his death knights was broken, his former champions sought revenge for the horrors committed under his command. After their vengeance was won, the death knights found themselves without a cause and without a home. One by one they trickled into the land of the living in search of a new purpose. Frost sharpens their strikes; blood fortifies their bodies; and undeath allows them to erupt in unholy rage in the heat of battle. A thousand atrocities are etched in the eyes of every death knight, and foes who gaze into them too long will feel the warmth pulled from their bodies, replaced with cold steel."
"In ages past, the dwarves cared only for riches taken from the earth's depths. Then records surfaced of a god-like race said to have given the dwarves life... and an enchanted birthright. Driven to learn more, the dwarves devoted themselves to the pursuit of lost artifacts and ancient knowledge. Today dwarven archaeologists are scattered throughout the globe.Bold and adventurous, the Dwarves of Ironforge are a hardy people who relish battle and exploration. Recently, records surfaced of a god-like race said to have given the Dwarves life, fueling their desire for exploration and archaeology as they seek to unearth the mysteries of their progenitors.The stoic dwarves of Ironforge spent countless generations mining treasures from deep within the earth. Hidden within their impregnable stronghold of Ironforge Mountain, they rarely ventured beyond the wintry peaks of Dun Morogh. Recently however, the dwarves unearthed a series of ruins that held secrets to their ancient heritage. Driven to discover the truth about his people's fabled origins, the great King Magni Bronzebeard ordered that the dwarves shift their industry from mining to archaeology. As part of the Grand Alliance, the stoneward dwarven armies have been called away to battle the merciless Horde in faraway lands. In these perilous times, the defense of the mountain kingdom falls to brave dwarves like you. The spirits of the ancient kings watch over you, and the very mountains are your strength. The future of your people is in your hands.Great change has come to the enduring halls of Ironforge. Obsessed with the workings of the Titans, the dwarves retrieved their creators' mystical tablets from the fabled city of Ulduar. Activating one such tablet, King Magni Bronzebeard fell prey to a terrible curse that fused his statue-like form into the diamond heart of Ironforge itself. To compound this tragedy, Magni's estranged daughter, Moira, arrived claiming her father's throne for herself and for her infant Dark Iron son. To avert civil war, the dwarves created the Council of Three Hammers, an uneasy coalition that would share power amonst the three clans. Now, with political upheaval arising in the kingdom and the Great Cataclysm ravaging the surrounding lands, the future of Ironforge falls to brave dwarves like you.The dwarves of Ironforge are an ancient race of robust humanoids who live beneath the snow-capped mountains of Khaz Modan. These dwarves have always been fast allies to the humans and they revel in the prospects of battle and storytelling alike."
"The first creature to bear the type was Scryb Sprites from Alpha."
"Paladins are champions who call upon the Light to heal wounds and combat evil. The draenei employed such holy warriors for millennia before arriving on Azeroth to find like-minded souls among the Alliance. Recently blood elves, too, began wielding paladin abilities. Yet these elves, having little in common with their counterparts, must bend the Light to their will."
"The Kieryn clan from the White Woods of Corondor, were part of the Quirion Sovereign. They lived near the River Estolade and were enemies of the Calthyn elves, who fought over the right to speak with the Great Spirit. The Kieryn used wing-capes to fly through the forest. They were led by Exarch Amadis, and met with Kristina of the Woods and Jared Carthalion."
"Evokers have no strong tendencies towards law or chaos and both good and evil evokers are common. Good evokers perceive evil as a force that must immediately be opposed by their power and evil evokers find evocation magic a fast and comparatively easy way to power. In spite of the sheer lack of subtlety in many evocation spells, or perhaps because of it, most evokers live in small and quiet homes or even as hermits. This is perhaps for the best and many, sometimes rightly, fear the power evokers can wield."
"Elves matured at roughly the same rate as humans, though they were not usually considered past adolescence until they reached 110 years of age. Unlike humans, elves did not age dramatically as their lifespan came to a close, with the most obvious changes being a change in hair color, alternatively graying or darkening. Most elves remained healthy and full of life up until their death, which, if age-related, was usually between two and nine centuries."
"Enchanters work with their allies more closely than some of the more single-minded wizard variants and this is one of their strengths. Enchanters use their spells to overcome social obstacles, convince enemies to lay down arms, or put foes into a daze. The most dangerous ability of an enchanter is their ability to turn an enemy into an ally, or vice versa, or to incapacitate an enemy in such a way that renders them as good as dead."
"Warriors are melee fighters highly trained in the arts of weaponry. These mighty warriors, strong and quick on the battlefield, depend on their heavy plate armor, shields, and battle prowess to defend themselves and ensure enemies don't focus on their softer-skinned allies. Weapon mastery is a staple of warrior training, and they are capable of delivering high damage with enormous two-handed weapons or by wielding two weapons. As warriors deal or take damage, their rage grows, allowing them to deliver truly crushing attacks in the heat of battle."
"Elves were usually found in small tribes throughout the forests of Toril, as well as on windswept plains and in mountain vales. The elves, as a whole, preferred these secluded places of nature to the cities and nations of the civilized world, living in harmony with their natural surroundings. Cautious and cunning warriors, particularly of the bow, elves secured these homelands through guile and tactics."
"Stereotypes of conjurers and sorcerers are often similar, with the reputation of conjurers being that they tend to see magic as a blunt instrument. In battle, conjurers do tend to be unflinching in danger, confident in their summoned power to overcome any threat."
"Your soul is inundated with power. Let it overflow, and your enemies will quickly learn to fear it." Esu to an unknown Sorceress(src) Sorceresses are a type of magic user. Sorceresses are of the Zann Esu Clan. Athletic, affable, and self-assured, Sorceresses hardly seem like scholarly bibliophiles hidden away from civilization. They possess many of the same skills as the male members of the Mage Clans, but excel at the use of elemental magic. Like most mages, they consider melee combat vulgar"
"I tire of the empty battles I once craved. I wander, outcast, while my tribe curses the gods who abandoned us. Our home is in ruins, yet I stand firm. Six days ago, the falling star struck the town of Tristram. The dead rose in its wake. What evil is this? Could it be what I have sought these long years -- a foe worthy of my blade?"
"Warriors are the quintessential fearless fighters on the battlefield, and their pure martial prowess inspires courage in allies and despair in enemies. Experts in all manner of melee weaponry and possessing incredible physical strength and skill, Warriors are perfectly suited to serve as frontline combatants and battlefield commanders."
"Male dwarves were often bald and grew thick facial hair, which was sometimes used to display social status. Unusually for humanoids, both sexes naturally grew ample facial hair, though the majority of shield dwarf females shaved their beards off. This hair was often dark in hue, though among shield dwarves blond or red hair was just as common. Gold dwarves took the care of facial hair to an extreme, carefully oiling and grooming it, with some adding perfume and ornamentations."
"Stormrage. Certain that the blood elves would die without Illidan's assistance, Kael'thas agreed to serve the Betrayer."
"Dwarves are fiercely nationalistic followers of their empress. Their proud society reveres Source and is clan-based, deeply divided between haves and have-nots."
"Because of their propensity for deliberant action more abjurers are lawful than not, though any alignment is possible. While abjurer's care and disdain for reckless action makes many good some are drawn to their talents by promises of power over other spellcasters. Abjurers only reluctantly adventure and are most often found in small villages where they enjoy the trust and good regards of friends and neighbors."
"Mages can be an extremely fun class to play, with enviable damage output, strong crowd control and some interesting utility spells. Whether blasting foes with Dragon's Breath or freezing attackers in a Ring of Frost, mages are a powerful presence on the battlefield. Masters of the arcane, mages can use their mental powers to alter the very fabric of reality, turning snarling attackers into harmless sheep or even altering time itself. Quick of mind and fleet of foot, mages stay one step ahead of their enemies, summoning frost and ice to entrap their assailants, and great fireballs and walls of flame to decimate their foes. Undisputed masters of the very fabric of reality, only the foolish do not fear the coming of a mage."
"Once upon a time there was a dwarf knight who only had fifty words to live in and they were so fleeting that he only had time to put on a suit of armor and ride swiftly on a black horse into a very well-lit woods where he vanished forever."
"Humans are four-limbed bipedal primates of the mammalian class. They have a highly developed brain capable of abstract reasoning, language, and introspection (though they are hardly the only creatures in Magic capable of this). The only natural plane where humans are known not to exist at all is Lorwyn-Shadowmoor. Human is the characteristic race for the color white."
"The elves of Kaldheim live in the realm of Skemfar. The elves actually used to be gods, the Einir, before being replaced by the modern pantheon of the Skoti. After their defeat, the leaders of the elvish Einir were imprisoned inside trees and the race was split into two clans: Wood elves (green aligned) and Shadow elves (black aligned). These two factions were alienated from each other for ages until recently, when an elf named Harald united the warring clans and named himself king. The elves are looking to reclaim some of their lost glory, and the reunification of their society is a step toward that goal."
"Elves tended to make strong and uplifting friends. Most elves loved simple joys such as dancing, singing, footraces, or contests of skill. They had a natural aversion to that which they saw as uninteresting tasks and were fun-loving by nature. However, despite how unpleasant some things such as war could be, elves became grimly serious if a threat to their friends, family, or livelihood made such actions necessary."
"Shield dwarves, are a subterranean subrace of dwarves, survived a long fall from grace, surrendering many of their ancient kingdoms in wars with goblins and orcs. These losses have lead to a cynical mindset, yet shield dwarves will endure anything to restore their ancestral homelands."
"The elves of Norwood inhabit the distant island-continent of Caliman on Dominaria. Norwood elves are very tall and have much longer ears than most other elves. They were in conflict with the humans of the Talas, and their warriors sometimes rode moose into battle."
"Barbarians' bravery and wanderlust made them uncommonly suited for the adventuring lifestyle. Often coming from nomadic tribes, most barbarians had few qualms with the traveling life typical to adventuring parties. Of the difficulties suffered by barbarians in adapting to a life of adventure, the greatest was most commonly the loss of family structure that comes from leaving the tribe. With time, however, many barbarians found the bonds with their new companions a worthy substitute."
"Many barbarians were human, since humans were among the most widespread of the races, as well as in many cases, the most uncivilized. However, orc and goblinoid barbarians were more common still and were sometimes the most commonly encountered warriors of their race. Barbarians from other races were relatively rare, though among elves there were the wild elves, among halflings the ghostwise, and among dwarves the wild dwarves, each of which possessed barbarian traditions. Half-elves from the Yuirwood were also sometimes drawn to the way of the barbarian, as were planetouched raised among tribal cultures. Dragonborn, goliath, and half-elven barbarians were also somewhat common, with dragonborns and half-elves preferring the way of thaneborn barbarians, while goliaths were more often rageblood barbarians."
""In all things, paladins must reflect the Light, which supplements our strength. To strive to be divine for one of our kind does not mean we strive for godhood--we strive to be good in all actions. Although called upon to smite evil in these harsh times, you must always remember that it's aiding others that will truly set you apart from the other citizens. Compassion, patience, bravery--these things mean as much to a paladin as strength in battle.""
"A group of dragonborn barbarians.As handy with a weapon as a fighter, barbarians became tougher and more agile as they grew more powerful. The most experienced barbarians were almost incomparably powerful, with a strength and constitution well beyond that of most mortals.  Though barbarians often used one-handed weapons, many preferred to use two-handed weapons in order to deal more damage to their foes. Barbarians were also well-versed in the use of light armor, and many lacked training in heavier forms of protection such as chain shirts or shields, while very few were trained in and most lacked training in heavy armor, such as plate mail."
"They were also capable masons and smiths - Dwarven smithying skills were said to be rivaled only by those of the Elves, and their masonry creations were bested by none. The skill of the Dwarves was unmatched; they crafted objects of great beauty out of diamond, emerald, ruby and sapphire. Everything Dwarven was beautifully crafted and intricate. They crafted many famed weapons, armors, and items of art and beauty, among them Narsil, the sword of Elendil, the Dragon-helm of Dor-lomin and the Nauglamir necklace."
"Ten thousand years ago, the night elves founded a vast empire, but their reckless use of primal magic brought them to ruin. In grief, they withdrew to the forests and remained isolated there until the return of their ancient enemy, the Burning Legion. With no other choice, the night elves emerged at last from their seclusion to fight for their place in the new world.An ancient and mystical race, the once-immortal Night Elves have had a hand in shaping centuries of Azeroth's history. They are bound inextricably to the natural forces around them and live a self-sufficient, reclusive lifestyle.For ten thousand years, the immortal night elves cultivated a druidic society within the shadowed recesses of Ashenvale Forest. Yet recently, the catastrophic invasion of the Burning Legion shattered the tranquility of their ancient civilization. Led by the Arch-Druid Malfurion Stormrage and the Priestess Tyrande Whisperwind, the mighty night elves rose to challenge the demonic onslaught. Though victorious, the night elves were forced to sacrifice their cherished immortality and watch their beloved forests burn. Seeking to regain their immortality, a number of wayward druids conspired to plant a special tree that would reestablish a link between their spirits and the eternal world. Despite Malfurion's warning that nature would never bless such a selfish act. The druids planted the great tree, Teldrassil, off the stormy coasts of northern Kalimdor. Among the twilight boughs of the colossal tree, the wondrous city of Darnassus took root. However, the great tree was not consecrated with nature's blessing and soon fell prey to the corruption of the Burning Legion. Now the wildlife and even the limbs of the great tree itself are tainted by a growing darkness. It is your sworn duty to defend Darnassus and the wild children of nature against the Legion's encroaching corruption.After years of imprisonment within the Emerald Nightmare, Archdruid Malfurion Stormrage has finally returned to the mortal world. Reunited with his love, Tyrande Whisperwind, Malfurion endeavors now to heal the corrupted world tree, Teldrassil, and rejuvenate the spirit of the night elf people. Yet, as the Great Cataclysm shakes the boughs of their colossal tree, the night elves brace themselves against the coming storm. As war and destruction close in from all sides, is falls to night elves like you to stand strong and protect the enduring legacy of your people. Amongst the oldest races on Azeroth, this ancient people saw the world nearly sundered by their own reckless use of magic. Forsaking the primal magics of their past, the elves then went on to live harmoniously with nature. After thousands of years in isolation, the night elves eventually made contact with the younger races and found common goals alongside them, resulting in their Alliance with the races of men, dwarves, and gnomekind."
"A dwarf advises on a matter of diplomacy.For dwarves, loyalty was more than a word and they felt that it should be both valued and rewarded. Dwarves believed it a gift and mark of respect to stand beside a friend in combat, and an even deeper one to protect that ally from harm. Many dwarven tales subsequently revolved around the sacrifice of dwarves for their friends and family. Just as dwarves were known for their dependability as friends and allies, dwarves also harbored grudges far longer than many other races. This might be on an individual basis between a dwarf and one who had wronged them, or against entire races, even if warfare with the enemy had long since ceased."
"Wizards were generally the best-respected of all arcane spellcasters since they usually had a measure of discipline that was uncommon among other arcane spellcasters, particularly sorcerers or warlocks whose very nature made them comparatively unruly. Not all wizards were deserving of this reputation, however, and wizards could be as easily chaotic or evil as any other class. Prior to the Spellplague, wizards as a whole were associated with the good goddess Mystra, whom many worshiped, though Mystra's death had ended this. Others worshiped Mystra's evil adversary, Shar, the goddess of darkness, giving them an entirely different reputation. With the return of Mystra after the Second Sundering, wizards once again fell under her purview."
"Paladins do battle to protect the world from the forces of shadow. Powerful warriors in their own right, they can also call upon the Light to heal wounds, create shields of force, and incinerate evil creatures. Although paladins were once exclusively human, a number of stout-hearted dwarves have recently been welcomed into the Order of the Silver Hand."
"Adaptable, expansionist and superstitious, humans are the dominant race of Rivellon. Civil wars have ravaged their lands, but not their authority."
"The Paladin is a battle-ready warrior for whom faith is a shield, and fights for what he believes to be right. His steadfastness gives him powers to bestow blessings to his friends and wreak cruel justice on foes. There are those who call the Paladin an overwrought zealot, but others recognize in him the strength and goodness of the Light." "Originally from the lands of the west, the Knights of the Faith, also known as Palad"
"Up until the Phyrexian Invasion, the Llanowar Elves were very xenophobic, and lived in seven kingdoms, called elfhames, in the forest of Llanowar. They worshiped the planeswalker Freyalise as a goddess. Warriors among the Llanowar elves, especially the Order of the Steel Leaf elite, wear distinctive white skin-paint, tattoos, goggles, and a mohawk."
"A dwarf having a snooze after eating.Dwarves highly valued the ties between family members and friends, weaving tightly knit clans. Dwarves particularly respected elders, from whom they expected sound leadership and the wisdom of experience, as well as ancestral heroes or clan founders. This idea carried on to relations with other races and dwarves were deferential even to the elders of another, non-dwarven race."
"The elves of Sarpadia dwelt in the forest of Havenwood. When food supplies ran low because of the coming Ice Age, the Havenwood elves infused their fungus with magic in order to increase their growth, inadvertently creating the monstrous thallids, who overran the elves and caused their extinction. Havenwood elves looked much like elves elsewhere. Some of their warriors wore distinctive blue body paint."
"Additionally it became clear that the high elves had become addicted to the Sunwell's arcane energies. Now that the source of their magic was gone, the few remaining high elves quickly grew ill and apathetic. Prince Kael'thas, last of the royal line, returned from his studies in Dalaran to find Quel'Thalas in ruins. Thirsting for vengeance, he gathered the survivors, renamed them blood elves, and took a group of the strongest fighters to join Lordaeron's campaign against the Scourge."
"The mage (or magician) is a damage-dealing spell-caster that specializes in burst damage and area of effect spells. Mages are well known for their formidable damage output, as well as their range of crowd control abilities. Mages are also capable of performing a number of utility roles, from conjuring refreshments for their allies to teleporting or opening Portals to major cities."
"Barbarians also were known to take on other, less common abilities. While raging, barbarians were typically unable to cast evocations, spells, or other similar abilities.  Some barbarians were more skilled with lesser evocations whilst raging. Barbarians could also use a fraction of their raging power to deal a devastating attack known as a rage strike."
"Mages wear only cloth armor, but compensate for this with a range of armor spells, wreathing themselves in flame, frost or even arcane energies. Nonetheless, when fighting melee opponents, mages stay alive by incapacitating attackers and always keeping one step ahead - and well out of reach. Mages are quick and can Blink away from attackers, deploy a Frost Nova to freeze whole groups in their tracks or even use Invisibility to slip into the shadows. Mages are masters of kiting, and can use their enviable range of snares and crowd control abilities to defeat whole groups of opponents without putting a hair out of place."
"Kaldheim elves carry weapons and wear armor made from an ancient, bronze-like metal. Each weapon is custom smithed for a single elf and is carried through that elf's lifetime, then melted down and re-shaped for the next generation."
"When casting spells, wizards often used arcane foci, or implements, such as staffs, orbs, or wands. These implements concentrated the arcane power in a spell, increasing its effectiveness. All wizards had a degree of specialization in implements, preferring one kind over another. Some took a liking to orbs, which they used to increase the duration of their spells' effects. Others preferred using wands to enhance their accuracy or staves to defend themselves. The most basic spells available to wizards were known as cantrips and required little skill on the part of the wizard in order for them to be cast. Such spells were typically small tricks of magic such as creating a light source, a sound, or moving a small object telekinetically."
"Most dwarven clans focused on one or two kinds of crafting, such as blacksmithing, jewelry, engineering, or masonry. Dwarves strove to avoid overspecialization by sending some of their youths to other clans to serve as apprentices, which also helped to foster racial unity. Because of their longevity, these apprenticeships might last decades."
"Avariel (or winged elves) have feathered wings and are capable of flight. They are more delicate than their earth-bound cousins, with hollow bones to aid their flight. They have pale skin and slightly larger than normal eyes."
"Ravnican faeries are known to be mischievous tricksters. The inhabitants have grown used to their pranks, with some having established basic security methods against them. Faeries are known to hunt trolls. The Izzet put the small stature and great agility of the faeries to good use.  Ratchet faeries repair and fine-tune many of the mechanical devices the Izzet creates, and they can also serve as messengers."
"With the coming of New Phyrexia, many elves have been compleated by the glistening oil and become a part of the Phyrexian faction, the Vicious Swarm. Still residing in the Tangle they act as wardens, led by the de facto leader of the region Glissa. Now they accelerate the growth of the Phyrexian monstrosities which roam the forest or hunt down the last of their kin who still hide in the forest."
"Primary death knight attributes are strength and stamina. Most important secondary attributes are usually Haste and Critical Strike, though certain specializations and rotations may favor Mastery."
"Barbarians held varying attitudes towards magic. On the one hand, barbarians distrusted most things they did not understand and this extended towards what they called "book magic" or magic learned in a school or university, such as that used by swordmages or wizards.  On the other hand, barbarians were themselves wielders of primal magic, as were the druids many barbarians called friends or allies. Likewise, barbarians often showed a large degree of respect for sorcerers, whose approach to magic was similar to their own unbridled style of combat. In no small way, it was likely that the barbarian prejudice against scholarly magic was due in some part to the fact that many barbarians were illiterate."
"Aerie is the only known avariel in the game."
"The faeries of Lorwyn were the only tribe not to be affected by the Great Aurora."
"Dwarves, sometimes called the Stout Folk and Deep Folk, were a natural humanoid race common throughout parts of Toril as well as Abeir. Dwarves were a tough, tradition-abiding folk known for their strong martial traditions and beautiful craftsmanship."
"In addition to the abilities mentioned above, Totem Warriors also gained the ability to cast druid spells such as beast sense or speak with animals as rituals. Their ability with these spells were somewhat limited compared with that of a druid, but nonetheless allowed the Totem Warrior to tap into the primal essence of nature in order to enhance their awareness or gather information."
"Druids, like clerics, are masters of magic that are powered by faith, often backed up with prowess in combat. They are "nature priests" and mostly green-aligned. Druids are strongly tied to plants, animals, fertility, the element of earth, and the land about them."
"They seem to have favoured simple durable clothing, coloured hoods and heavy cloaks for travelling, and belts of gold or silver. For battle their soldiers would have elaborately crafted armor and helmets, bearing various angles and styles that were trademarks of Dwarven crafting styles. Their armor was masked with symbols (after the manner of those used in forges for shielding the eyes) that were hideous to look upon."
"The Joraga Nation was seated in the Tangled Vale portion of Bala Ged. Their leader was Speaker Nen, although the various tribes were only loosely connected. Each tribe followed the migratory pattern of a particular species of beast, adapting the creature into their magic and combat styles. Nomadic by nature, the Joraga eschewed outsiders and held even the other elves of Zendikar in disdain. With the coming of the Eldrazi, the Joraga were nearly eliminated."
"An eccentric apprentice.Enchantment, also known as charming, is the arcane art of influencing or controlling the actions of others and enchanters are those wizards who specialize in the school. More than a few enchanters have an unusually high charisma and degree of charm about them for a wizard, possessing a naturally outgoing and attractive personality. Even if they lack charisma however, enchanters can sway the opinions or actions of others - so long as they cast a charm spell first, which draws on their intelligence."
"Eldraine has some beneficial fairies, like Ulgrotha. However, most of the fae of the Wilds are antagonists of the five knightly courts. They are divided among at least three types."
"There are many racial divisions of elves: Gold elves, drow (aka dark elves), moon elves, sea elves, wild elves, and winged elves (aka avariel). Elves are generally liked and even admired by humans and are easily accepted into their society. The same cannot be said for dwarves some of whom despise elves on principle."
"The Fighter is a champion, swordsman, swordswoman, soldier, and brawler who lives or dies by the knowledge of weapons and tactics. Fighters can be found at the front of any battle, contesting toe-to-toe with monsters and villains. A good Fighter needs to be strong and healthy if they hope to survive."
"A female barbarian striking down with her blade.However, barbarians were united - no matter their origins - by a marked lack of discipline or patience for the laws and traditions that others adhered to. Likewise, while a generalization, it is true to some degree that nearly all barbarians came from outside the confines of settled civilization, being far more common among nomadic tribes or frontier settlers than they were among urban city dwellers. It is from these remote origins that barbarians often derived their reverence for nature, which brought them closer to druids, rangers, and others who venerated the wilderness."
